Kwe Kwe, my name is Jolie-Ann Héroux-Brazeau.
I am currently working for Indigenous Services Canada, but more specifically for FNIHB.
So I work for the First Nations and Inuit Health Branch.
I have been a liaison officer since May 2022, so since May 2022,
I have had the opportunity to work directly with Indigenous communities.
Nin Anisnhabeekwee, which means I am an Algonquin woman.
I am a member of the Anishinaabe Nation of Lac-Simon, in Abitibi.
So, first I'd like to share my story with you because it's going to really help you
understand why I decided to work for the government and how my work is helping me
heal myself not only as an individual, but as a First Nations woman.
So, at the age of five, I was removed from my biological family to grow up in Youth Centres.
So, I lived in several foster families, several group homes, shelters.
So for me, connecting to culture was never something that was part of my childhood.
Then it was at the age of 27 that I decided to give myself this beautiful gift, to reconnect with my traditional culture.
It is also at the age of 27, that I also started working for the government.
Currently, I am almost 30 years old, so I've been working here for two and a half years.
Now I am going to tell you how my work has actually allowed me to reconnect with my history, to reconnect with my true identity.
So when I work with Indigenous communities, I can really see the resilience of communities.
And that is really a strength, and it is really a beautiful gift that life has given me
to be able to see how Indigenous communities are able to take charge of themselves,
to find their own tools, and also how they organize themselves together to improve the quality of life,
to be able to heal themselves as a people, and for me, that is really something that is very, very inspiring in my life.
I am also the co-chair of the Indigenous Employees Network at work.
So it's me, in fact, who co-chairs a network where there are several Indigenous employees.
We often organize conferences.
So I'll give you an example of a conference that I organized with an Elder who came to speak at a regional discussion.
So a discussion with federal public servants.
So the Elder came to tell the story of her mother who grew up in residential schools,
and then the employees were so deeply touched that there were some employees who started to cry.
So for me too to see that there are other employees who are non-Indigenous,
who are really committed to the reconciliation process.
I also like to say the process of reparation because for me, that's what I do,
working for the government, it's repairing and helping communities,
supporting them in the whole healing process that they're undertaking.
Then it also heals me too, myself, as an individual.
So to see other employees who are also as committed as I am,
it's really something that's very, very powerful, that helps me a lot in my personal life as well.
We agree that historically, the government has not always been fair with Indigenous communities.
But I think that now, in 2022, we are really in an era of change, of evolution.
And for me, as a woman, to contribute to that is really something that makes me grow as an individual.
So for real, ever since I've been working for the public service, I've just had good, good feelings inside of me.
So there you go, I hope you enjoyed my video.
So Miigwetch for having listened to me.
I wish you a nice day.